Being a remote-first team, we value everything that can help us stay connected and have more face-to-face interaction, so we are putting a lot of effort into simplifying and maintaining the remote working culture, making it as easy and friendly for balenistas. 

Therefore, we'd like to ask you to upload a photo to the everyday services you will be using, such as your @balena.io e-mail and Flowdock. You can use the same photo you use for your social media profiles, as long as it is an actual photo of you and as normal as possible! We also encourage everyone to have their cameras on for the all-hands calls and any other smaller meetings you will be interacting with balenistas, so we can all put a face on those usernames. 

If you want to get an overview of all the folks at Balena, there is a [wall with virtual team magnets](https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1wMHCHH6tQhbG1leM_06NtfoMGUMuvgthCddxH01xqD8)!

While we encourage to keep all written communication in public and you will read more about it in the Flowdock guide later, we want you to take every opportunity to jump on informal calls with your teammates. Many of us have found useful to do a few one to one calls with different people working on different areas to get a broad understanding of how everything works, as well as connect and start building relationships. You will soon discover that everyone is very approachable and willing to spend some time to go through their work and get to know you, so it should be easy to get to know people :) 

**Quick advice before we move on to the specifics**: Once you join Flowdock, you will be introduced to the team by the balenista assisting your onboarding and the welcome pings will start coming your way! Take the opportunity to introduce yourself to everyone and tell us a little bit about you. You will find a [Flowdock guide](https://github.com/balena-io/balena-io/wiki/Flowdock) further down the wiki, but you might want to have a quick look [here](https://www.flowdock.com/help/chat) and [here](http://archive.is/xVcjA) and read about conversation threads and re-threading. Threading is something that all new balenistas who are not familiar with Flowdock get wrong, so don't worry if it gets you some time to get it right :)

_Quick FD tip to make things easier! You will see all messages in chronological order. Press ESC+S so every thread is shown to the right and you can reply to the same thread from there. You can see the messages for one thread altogether on the right of your screen by clicking on the colored arrows on the left of the messages. If you need help, just ask!_

