We try to keep the organization as flat and as lightweight as possible. It’s a small company and the team has grown quite a bit lately, so people are encouraged to take charge of their work independently. You should be able to figure out how to help yourself and others with little guidance and intervention. We believe that every balenista can work independently and lead on their work! 

This doesn’t mean that you’re on your own here. We’ve got your back and altogether we try making our everyday life easier. You will soon see that all balenistas are very approachable and eager to help, so do not hesitate to reach out when needed! When you identify tasks that can be made consistent, you’re encouraged to discuss them with the team, raise them internally, as well as draw up a process to handle them. Will we be doing this often enough to automate it? How could this be automated? How would someone do this if we were double the size we are now? In other words, we are very flexible in solving new problems, but we try to solve them in ways that will be efficient today and scalable in the future. We welcome suggestions and want to hear your ideas! 

Depending on your role or the project you are working on, you will have some teammates that you are working closely with that can offer the guidance needed when you are new and support you to learn and settle in. For some things, you’ll need a senior person to fall back on, or ask for advice. For anything related to product development and technology, that’s Petros. For everything related to sales & marketing you should contact Alison. For anything else, you can contact the Operations team or the TeamOS team if it is team specific and they will help you out.

If you are struggling or you have any concerns and feedback to share, we want to hear from you! You are welcome to reach out to anyone you feel comfortable to discuss with, whether this is one of the senior people guiding your work or someone that can help push your feedback in the right direction.