**Welcome to balena, you are officially a balenista!**

We are all excited to have you here and we look forward to working with you and getting to know you. You have already met a few other balenistas during the hiring process and you have your gear set up and ready for your Day 1 at balena! In addition to the hardware set up you have chosen for your home/office set up, you will receive a headset, a yubikey, a Rasberry Pi 4 (4GB) and a balenaFin. We aim to send you these as closest as possible to your start date. We want you to start using balena as a user, spend some time to see what our users experience and provide your valuable feedback around the experience and documentation. 

This wiki will provide you with some key information and an overview of how we work. Take your time reading through to familiarize with all the applications and services you will be using soon, before jumping on them. This wiki will not cover everything, so you are encouraged to start interacting with the team to get to know everyone and learn more about the exciting projects they are working on! 

While we have been investing some time and resources to keep this wiki up to date, things change fast, so we would appreciate your feedback, ideas and observations to help us make it more welcoming and useful for everyone. Tell us what we have missed and what would help more! Feel free to post your feedback about your onboarding experience and the wiki in Flowdock using the `t/beginners` flow and the hashtag **#teamfeedback**. We expect you to have many questions, so take your time to ask them. Feel free to use the flow `t/beginners` to direct any general or technical queries to the team. 

We have put together a checklist to help you tick off some of the key tasks you will be working on during your first few weeks and as you go through this wiki. **Find the new starter checklist [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cQZz8in9iEhsM2_LNaI36tvX_TH1c7RgC-uem78aMV8/edit?ts=5fb3d7b8#gid=0)** and create a copy to keep for yourself. 

N.B. Flowdock is our main tool for internal communication. A "flow" is like a room and we use different flows for specific components, projects and teams as an attempt to group information and conversations. If you are not familiar with Flowdock don't worry, you will find more information and guidance further down the wiki. 